# Cursor queries

## What are cursor entries
A query result can be a set of entries or a set of documents:
- Cursor entry
An entry can be either a category or a document. The category contains contains a set of meta-data defining it (isCategory(), getUnid()...) as well as the value extracted from the database.
- Document
Every single row is a JSON document matching the query. There is no category in this case

## Executing a query in Java
A query can be executed using the Java API, by instanciating a Cursor, setting options and executing the query. The result can be either cursor entries, documents or the number of entries/documents being returned.
See: https://playground.darwino.com/playground.nsf/JavaSnippets.xsp#snippet=Json_Store_Cursor/

## Executing a query using REST services
Queries can be executed using REST services. The result rows are the JSON serialization of the Java objects, having the meta-data at the object root and the value in a `json` property. But, for document services, an optional `/json` is appened, the JSON will just containing the values in its root, without meta-data. if the `DOCUMENT_METADATA` options specified, then the meta-data are added in a property called `__meta`

See: https://playground.darwino.com/playground.nsf/OpenApiExplorer.xsp#openApi=Json_Store_Query/

## Passing parameters to queries
Queries can use parameters within the JSON query definition. They are identified by `$$<name>`, similarly to MongoDB. Here is an example of a :brand parameter:

    Cursor c = store.openCursor()
    			.query("{state:'$$state'}")
    			.param("state","CA");
    
See: http://playground.darwino.com/playground.nsf/JavaSnippets.xsp#snippet=Json_Store_Cursor_Select_Query_Parameters

## Registered queries
If queries can be executed dynamically, they can also be registered by name. Registered queries are retrieved using a factory assigned store factory. A common practice is to put the queries in `DARWINO-INF/cursors` as `*.cursor` files, and use the predefined factory like bellow:
`setQueryFactory(new DarwinoInfCursorFactory(getClass()));`

See: https://github.com/darwino/darwino-demo/blob/develop/darwino-demo/contacts-react/contacts-react-shared/src/main/java/com/contacts/app/AppDBBusinessLogic.java

A registered query is loaded in Java by using `load()`. This requests the definition from the extension:
`session.getDatabase("playground").getStore("pinball").openCursor().load("Pinball/Brands");`

See: https://playground.darwino.com/playground.nsf/JavaSnippets.xsp#snippet=Json_Store_Cursor_Run_Predefined_Query

From REST services, the parameter `name` should be used to reference a predefined query. Note that a list of registered queries is available with `/list`
