# Database Security

## Security levels
The Darwino stores uses 3 levels of security:
1. Server level
2. Database level
3. Document level

## Server level
Access can be granted or denied for user to the whole database server. This is done by instantiating `ServerACL` object and then assigning to the server extension registry.
Without such an object created, all users have access to the server

## Database access level
Assuming that a user has access to a server, the user access, and permissions, can be a defined using a `DatabaseACL` object. This object defined privileges from simple readers to managers, while also allowing fine grained control to document creation, update and deletion.
The `DatabaseACL` can come from the database definition as one of its properties, or from a factory assigned in the registry. If the registry factory defines a `DatabaseACL` for a particular DB, then it overrides any coming from the database definition.
A common factory `(DefaultDatabaseACLFactory`) dynamically reads the definition from the object design element, making the security very flexible and dynamic.

Example of a database ACL assigned in the database definition:

    _DatabaseACL acl = new _DatabaseACL();
    acl.addUser("demo", _DatabaseACL.ROLE_READER);
    acl.addAuthenticated(_DatabaseACL.ROLE_FULLEDITOR);
    db.setACL(acl);

## Document access level
Each document stored in the database can contain `_readers`, `_writers`, `_ereaders` and `_ewriters` fields. These fields can contains user dn, roles or groups. Even more, they can contain subfields if the entries have to be grouped for easier handling (ex: `_readers.myfield`).
As document based security as a cost, it has to be enabled explicitly in the database definition like this:

    db.setDocumentSecurity(Database.DOCSEC_INCLUDE);
If there is no reader security (everyone can read any document), then there is another flag that suppresses the read check, for again performance reasons:

    db.setDocumentSecurity(Database.DOCSEC_INCLUDE|Database.DOCSEC_NOREADER);

## Simulating Notes/Domino security model
If Domino provides similar N/D security concepts, there are a few thing to take into consideration:
1. The `DatabaseACL` coming from Domino is, by default, replicated as a design element. But, to take advantage of it, the `DefaultDatabaseACLFactory` must be assigned to the registry. This factory can also be customized to only handle a set of databases.
2. The reader/writer fields should be set to the Notes/Domino compatibility mode as the default Darwino behavior is a bit different.

    db.setDocumentSecurity(Database.DOCSEC_INCLUDE|Database.DOCSEC_NOTESLIKE);

