# Services Security

## Web application server security
If the web application server security is enabled, like in web.xml, then this applies to the all the Darwino services served by this application. Note that this only works on JEE applications, an not on mobile application which should not really matter as only one, local user is being used.

## Darwino specific security
Darwino specific security is provided through the `HttpServiceConstraints` class. If this class is very generic, its implementation `HttpConstraintsStatic` providing some easy to use settings is generally used.

An `HttpServiceConstraints` instance can be assigned at different places, depending what the JEE application is using. Most of the time, security is being handled through a JEE filter which can be:

1. Authentication filter
If an authentication filter is used instead of the web app server authentication capability.
2. Security filter
When the web app server authentication is used, then one can use a security filter that will apply the Darwino security. Note that a security filter should not be created when Darwino authentication is used, as this will be redundant.

In both cases, the security constraints can be assigned explicitly (using setConstraints in the filter constructor), or using a managed bean of type `darwino/httpconstraint`. Even an init parameter, `httpConstraints`, can be defined to use a particular bean name.

For some rare, unusual use cases, HTTP contraints can also be directly assigned to more specific classes, like the service factory or the service dispatcher servlet/filter. In that case though, beans cannot be used and the assignment has to be done explicitly by code.

## Advanced JSON database services
Generic JSON database services can also be fined grained controlled, beyond the server/database/document ACL:
1. Database access can be controlled
Multiple applications deployed on the same server can share the same database environment. But the services exposed by one application should only give access to the databases used by the application. This is done by default based on the application manifest (see: `J2EEServletJsonStoreServiceFactory`).
2. Filtering data
The generic services serve the whole documents or view entries. For security reasons, if some fields should be hidden to some users, then the services have content filters that can be implemented (`DocumentContentFilter` & `CursorContentFilter`).

To filter the content, the AppServiceDispatcher class should create the JsonServiceFactory and the assign it the proper access control or content filters.