# Authenticating users

## Accessing the authenticated user
Authentication can be done by the web application server, a Darwino filter or the mobile runtime. It is represented by a `User` object containing the dn and other attributes, including its roles and groups.

### Darwino application
The easiest way to get the current user in a Darwino application id to use the DarwinoContext. It works both JEE and Mobile apps.

		User user = DarwinoContext.get().getUser();

### Specific to JEE
Although it is advised to use the `DarwinoContent` as this is portable across platforms, a JEE app is has the authenticated user is available through the Authentication Service

		User user = Platform.getService(AuthenticationService.class).getUser(request);

## Extending the directory

### Dynamic user attributes
While a directory will set the user attributes, groups and roles, it is also possible to assign roles using a `UserRoleProvider`. It could also be used to add other attributes or groups. 
Here is, for example, how a static role provider can be assigned to a directory.

     <bean type="darwino/userdir" name="base" class="...">
        ...
       <bean name="roleProvider" class="com.darwino.config.user.UserRoleStatic">
            <list name="roles">
                <bean class='com.darwino.config.user.UserRoleStatic$Role'>
                    <property name='name'>admin</property>
                    <list name='users'>
                        <value>user1</value>
                        <value>user1</value>
                    </list>
                </bean>
            </list>
        </bean>  
        ...
      </bean>  

### Contextual users
The same user can have different attributes, depending on the context. For example, this user can be an admin in a context and just a user in another one. This is particularly true when instances are used.
To support contextual users, the `DarwinoContext` has a `UserContextFactory` that decorates an existing user with contextual attributes/roles/groups, for every single request. An example for that is the IBM `CommunityContext`, which adds roles to user depending on the current community (instance) and the membership of this user in the community.
Because this is on a per Darwino request basis assigned to the `DarwinoContext`, the context factory must be defined at the filter level in `web.xml`:

	<!--  Filter for creating the Darwino Application, Context and DB session -->
	<filter>
    	<filter-name>DarwinoApplication</filter-name>
    	<filter-class>com.darwino.j2ee.application.DarwinoJ2EEFilter</filter-class>
        <init-param>
        	<param-name>userContextFactory</param-name>
            <param-value>com.darwino.ibm.connections.usercontext.CommunityContext</param-value>
        </init-param>
    </filter>
	<filter-mapping>
    	<filter-name>DarwinoApplication</filter-name>
    	<url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
	</filter-mapping>
