# Installing Darwino on a Domino server
Darwino is able to synchronize with a variety of database systems, Domino included. It does this by means of a synchronization service running on the Domino, supported by database adapters that define the field mapping between replicating databases.

There are various support considerations, primarily to do with replication. The `darwino.sync` service runs on the Domino server to handle inbound replication requests and outbound scheduled replications. It makes Domino appear to the outside world like a Darwino server. It will provide the list of changes since last replication with the requesting server, and then handle the necessary Domino <-> JSON data transformations.

### Requirements

The Darwino replicator plugins require a Domino server running at least Domino 9.0, though 9.0.1 with a recent fix/feature packs is preferred.

### Installation

To install the Darwino Domino adapter, there are two steps:

- Create a new database on the hosting server using the "darwinosync.ntf" template from the distribution with the name "darwinosync.nsf" in the root of the server. The location and file name of the database are important, though the title is not.
  - The expected file path can be overridden by setting the "DarwinoSyncDB" property in the server's notes.ini to the different name if you would prefer to install it elsewhere.
  - The database must be signed with a Notes ID that has rights to execute XPages applications on your server, which can be done from Domino Administrator.
- Install the contents of the "UpdateSite" directory from the distribution on your server. This can be done via an NSF Update Site (see [IBM's documentation](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSKTMJ_8.5.3/com.ibm.help.domino.admin85.doc/H_USING_AN_NSF_BASED_UPDATE_SITE_OVER.html) for details) or by manually copying the plugins into the server's "data/domino/workspace/applications/eclipse" directory.

### Designer Installation

Though not required to configure replication, Darwino extensions for Designer can allow the configuration of push notifications for micro apps and to open the Darwino Sync Admin database in Designer.

To install the Designer extensions and support libraries:

- In Domino Designer, go to File -> Preferences -> Domino Designer and check "Enable Eclipse plug-in Install"
- Also in Designer, go to File -> Application -> Install
- Select "Search for new features to install" and click "Next"
- Click "Add Folder Location", browse to the "UpdateSite-Designer" folder in this archive, and click "OK"
- Give the site a descriptive name and click "OK"
- Click "Finish"
- Click the top-level "Darwino" checkbox in the tree to select all available features
- Click "Next", click "I accept the terms in the license agreements", click "Next" again, and then click "Finish"
- For each installation prompt, select "Install this plug-in" and click "OK"
- When it is complete, close Designer (and Notes and Administrator if open) and relaunch. Do not use the popup's restart action, as this is historically unreliable