# Deploying DSL Adapters via Plugins

In addition to writing DSL adapters directly in the Sync Admin database, they can be packaged into OSGi plugins and deployed via an update site NSF or the filesystem.

Adapter contribution is done via an OSGi extension using the `com.darwino.domino.replicator.dbadapter` extension point. Here is an example `plugin.xml` file pointing to a factory class:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?eclipse version="3.4"?>
<plugin>
   <extension point="com.darwino.domino.replicator.dbadapter">
      <DbAdapterFactory class="com.darwino.domino.replicator.dbadapter.domdisc.DatabaseAdapterFactory"/>
   </extension>
</plugin>
```

The class itself must implement the `com.darwino.domino.jstore.servlet.IDatabaseAdapterFactory` interface, which defines a factory that can provide database adapter objects. For DSL-based adapters, the factory can extend `com.darwino.domino.jstore.dsl.DSLDatabaseAdapterFactory`, which is an `IDatabaseAdapterFactory` implementation with knowledge of loading DSL files via the classpath. For example:

```java
package com.darwino.domino.replicator.dbadapter.domdisc;

import com.darwino.commons.log.Logger;
import com.darwino.domino.jstore.ReplicatorLog;
import com.darwino.domino.jstore.dsl.DSLDatabaseAdapterFactory;

public class DatabaseAdapterFactory extends DSLDatabaseAdapterFactory {
	@Override
	public String[] getScriptNames() {
		return new String[] { "domdisc" }; //$NON-NLS-1$
	}
}
```

This class loads the file `domdisc.groovy` from the plugin's classpath.

## Alternative Plugin Contributions

In addition to this default mechanism, a plugin could contribute adapters in two other, more-complex ways: as DSL via a method other than the default classpath resource or pure Java implementations.

### DSL Contributions

To contribute adapters via DSL, the factory class should implement the root `com.darwino.domino.jstore.servlet.IDatabaseAdapterFactory` interface, load the DSL via whatever mechanism is desired, and then use the `com.darwino.domino.jstore.dsl.DSLAdapterUtil` class to evaluate the script into an adatper. The method to use in particular is:

```java
public static DSLDatabaseAdapter constructAdapterForScript(String dsl, String dbName, String title, DSLScriptLoader scriptLoader) throws CompilationFailedException;
```

This method takes the DSL as a string, the effective Darwino database name (in the case of NSF-defined adapters, this is a cleaned version the DSL title), a programmatic title for the final result, and an implementation of `com.darwino.domino.dsl.DSLScriptLoader` for loading chained scripts. The most common such implementation is `com.darwino.domino.dsl.ClassResourceScriptLoader`, which is used by `DSLDatabaseAdapterFactory` above.

### Java Contributions

Database adapters, including DSL-defined ones, are implemented as Java objects extending `com.darwino.domino.jstore.DominoDatabaseAdapter`. To implement an adapter in Java, the best route is to extend `com.darwino.domino.jstore.basic.BasicDatabaseAdapter`, which contains some additional helper functionality. Individual form mappings are implemented using `com.darwino.domino.jstore.basic.BasicDatabaseAdapter.NSFForm`, which in turn point to instances of `com.darwino.domino.jstore.converters.DocumentConverter`. As with the database adapter, there is a standard implementation of this interface, `com.darwino.domino.jstore.basic.BasicDocumentConverter`.

These standard implementations contain most of the functionality of the Groovy DSL subclasses, but without some of the DSL-oriented method names and support for callbacks.