# Data Conversion Considerations

When converting from Domino to Darwino, most data will be handled without issue by the conversion process, but there are several situations that can complicate the process in one direction or the other.

## Encrypted Documents and Fields

Data inside Notes documents can be encrypted based on an individual user or group of users' Notes ID filed, but replication always runs with a server ID. This means that, in order to replicate encrypted data, either the server ID will have to be granted access to data or the documents must be decrypted by an applicable ID beforehand. The latter process can be automated, but must still be run under an ID with a decryption key, which generally means on a local Notes client or a specially-designed application running on an ID-Vault–enabled server running Domino 9.0.1FP8 or above.

## Corrupted Documents

The process of replicating documents from older databases often "kicks up the dust", as it were, exposing old data  that became corrupted by one mechanism or the other over the years. In these cases, the replicator is limited by what the Domino server is able to do with these documents, and will generally emit an entry into the replicator log indicating the source database and UNID of the corrupted document. If this is important data, it may be best to attempt to retrieve a pristine version of it from another server or from a backup.

## Complicated Rich Text

The conversion process for Notes-format (Composite Data) rich text to Darwino documents is essentially the same as the process that XPages uses, using the internal CD&rarr;HTML converter provided by Domino. As such, it has limits, and in particular it has no representation for embedded programmatic elements such as action buttons with backing code, embedded views, and other entities.

## ACL and Document Permissions

By default, replication runs as the name of the server hosting the replicator. This means that, if a database does not grant at least reader permission to that user name, then the replicator will fail to access the database. There are two potential solutions: either grant the server name access to the database (it's recommended to grant at least Editor+deletion access to allow for two-way replication) or change the replicator user name in the Darwino Sync Admin application settings.

If you choose the latter, it alters the internal behavior slightly beyond just changing the effective user name: in this case, the data-access APIs will also enforce reader and author fields for that user name, so the effective user must have not only access to the database, but also all desired documents from within it. If the user lacks reader access, the behavior will be as if the reader-restricted documents do not exist.