# Defining the view columns

A Darwino grid is displaying the data in a tabular form, using columns. Each column can have a set of properties.

## Extracting the column data
If nothing is specified in the query itself, then the whole JSON content for every single documents is extracted and returned as part of the data. This might be ok, but a developer might want to select what data should specifically be retrieved:

1. To minimize the amount of data transferred from the server to the client
2. To calculate some result on the server side, and make them simple to consume by the client

Columns are defined in the query object through the `extract` attribute. The attribute key is the column name, while the value is the expression to be evaluated for that columns. The expressions are evaluated for every single document:

    {
      "extract": {
        "Industry": "industry",
        "State": {$USState: "$state"},
        "Name": "name",
        "form": "form"
      },
    }
A simple name indicates the name of a field at the root of the document. A $xxxx property is generally a function, whenever it is a predefined or a custom one. In the example above , `$USState` is a custom one (see "Custom query function").

## Using Notes/Domino @formula language
Darwino is equiped with a `@formula` interpreter that can be used to calculate data based on the JSON document content. `$atFormula` is the function used to evaluate an actual formula:

    "CommonName": {
      "$atFormula": '@If(LastName="";"Misc";"  "+@Left(@ProperCase(LastName);1))' 
    },
    
## Using GraphQL
[GraphQL](https://playground.darwino.com/playground.nsf/GraphqlSnippets.xsp) can also be used to optimize the queries between a server and a client. The demo application does not demonstrate this technology, but the playground has many showcase.