# Defining the query

A query refers to a database and eventually a store. If nothing else is provided, then all the documents from the store are retrieved, using a default order. But many options are available:

1. Filtering the result
2. Categorizing/grouping the rows
3. Displaying the documents in a hierarchy (children)
4. Transforming the resulting data beyond the raw JSON cntent
5. ... many other options

See some examples in the Playground: 
[https://playground.darwino.com/playground.nsf/DarwinoDbSnippets.xsp](https://playground.darwino.com/playground.nsf/DarwinoDbSnippets.xsp)

## Adding a query condition
A query condition is defined by the `query` attribute in the query definition:

    {
      "query": "{firstName: 'Jones'}",
    }
This uses the standard Darwino query language and can be as complex as needed. Some examples are available in the playground or in the developer's guide:
https://playground.darwino.com/playground.nsf/DarwinoDbSnippets.xsp#snippet=Queries_-_SQL_Optimization/

## Ordering the result
The default order in the client side view grid is the order returned by the server query: the default behavior is to get the server sorting the entries. This allows the data to be "lazy loaded" when needed. But another mode can get the whole data set locally in the browser and do the sorting in memory, with no server interaction.

The server side sort order is defined at the query level:

    {
      "orderBy": "industry,state"
    }

The view grid also allows the user to reorder the rows by clicking a column header. This is enabled at the column level, through the `sortable` property. As the sort is done on the server side, there is a `sortField` to tell what field in the JSON should be used, if different from the column name.

    columns={[
      {name: "Name", key: "Name", resizable:true, sortable: true, sortField: 'name'}
      ...
    ]}


## Grouping the entries
The Darwino query engine has a capability for grouping rows but it is generally more efficient, and more flexible, to let the view grid do it with the local data. Note that the orderBy option above should match these columns to make it work properly:

    groupBy: [
        {column:"Industry"}, // formatter: null
        {column:"State"}
    ],

When a user choose a different order by clicking a column, then the category rows are hidden.

## Selecting Notes/Domino documents based on a form
When documents are replicated from Notes/Domino, then they generally have a `form` field that contains the form name. A selection condition can be applied as bellow:

    {
      "query": "{form: 'Company'}",
    }

## Retrieving children documents
Children documents can be retrieved using the `parentid` attribute. Generally, this parent ID should is not hard coded in the query itself, but passed dynamically from the grid component.
The `Company.jsx` form shows how to display an embedded grid displaying the children of the current document (the current document id is used the parentid condition) :
{% raw %}
        <CursorGrid
          databaseId={Constants.DATABASE}
          params={{
            name: "AllCompanyDocuments",
            parentid: this.state.unid
          }}
          showResponses={true}
          columns={[
            {name: "Title", key: "Title", sortable: true, sortField: 'title'},
          ]}
        />
{% raw %}