# Dynamic Select (Combobox)

The list displayed by a select component can be static or dynamic, for example coming from a database. Moreover, this content can depend on other values like when comboboxes are linked together. See: `extras/DynamicSelect.jsx`.

## Static values
The values are passed through the `options `property. These values are passed as either an array of simple values or an array of objects with the `value `and `label` properties. In the first case, the value displayed and the one stored in the field are the same, while the second option displays a more friendly label to the user.

Example with simple values:

                <Field name="select1" component={renderSelect} 
                    label="Select With Static Values - No Label" 
                    disabled={disabled} readOnly={readOnly}
                    options={["M","F"]}
                />
                
Example with custom labels:                

                <Field name="select11" component={renderSelect} 
                    label="Select With Static Values" 
                    disabled={disabled} readOnly={readOnly}
                    options={[
                        { value: "M", label: "Male"},
                        { value: "F", label: "Female"}
                    ]}
                />

Note that the combobox also supports an empty option to use when the field value is empty, without having the empty value in the `options` property. A custom label can also be provided:

With the default label:

               <Field name="select2" emptyOption={true}

With a custom label:

               <Field name="select2" emptyOption="<empty>"

## Dynamic values
Dynamic values are passed through the same property. Now, as ReactJS can render the component many times, the list should be retrieved once, stored, and used by the `options` property.
A common practice is to store that list in the page state. The query is done in the page constructor or, more appropriately, can come from the redux store. This requires some custom actions and reducers.

Bellow is a simple example using a JSQL query:

    constructor(props,context) {
        super(props,context)
        this.state = {
            companies: [],
        }
        new Jsql()
            .database(Constants.DATABASE)
            .query("SELECT $.name name FROM companies WHERE $.form='Company' ORDER BY name")
            .format('value')
            .fetch()
            .then((json) => {
                this.setState({companies: json})
            });
        render() {
          ...
            <Field name="company" component={renderSelect} label="Company"
              options={this.state.companies} emptyOption={true}/>
          ...
        }
    }

## Correlated values
The list of values of a combobox can be changed when another value in the form changes. The easiest solution is to recompute the list within `calculateOnChange` as the list can be considered like a computed value. Also, to not recompute the list more than necessary, the state should also carry the parameters used to compose the list. Then the list could also come the redux store (best practice).

Here is an example:

    calculateOnChange(values) {
        // The list of users depends on the current company.
        // We recalculate it after a change
        let company = this.getFieldValue("company")
        if(company!=this.state.currentCompany) {
            if(company) {
                new Jsql()
                ...
                    .then((json) => {
                        // In case the field has changed before we got the result back...
                        if(company==this.getFieldValue("company")) {
                            json = json.map((e) => {
                                return e.fname + " " + e.lname;
                            });
                            this.setState({currentCompany:company, users: json})
                        }
                    });
            } else {
                this.setState({currentCompany:company, users: []})
            }
        }
    }

Possible optimization: when the form state changes, the whole form is going to be redered again. If this is not an issue for many forms, it can be optimized so only the combobox will be rendered. A solution is to use an intermediate component used to store the values in its state, or use the redux store.