# Form Fields

Fields can easily be added to a form, following the React Redux instructions. Darwino provides some easy to use helpers that brings more features with the editable components as well as an optional label.

## Adding a component
The main component, `Field`, is provided by React Redux. Underneath, it uses some Darwino helpers providing the extra features, the proper CSS formatting (ex: bootstrap), the mode management (readonly, ...), a label and an error message.
Here is an example of a simple edit field:

    <Field name="name" type="text" label="Name" 
      component={renderText} disabled={disabled} readOnly={readOnly}/>
- name: is the attribute name in the JSON
- type: is the HTML input type
- component: the Darwino helper component to use
- disabled: indicates if the component is disabled, meaning that it cannot be used to edit the data
- readOnly: indicates if the component is readonly, meaning that it only displays some static text

Darwino provides a whole set of components beyond the simple edit box, like checkboxes, radiobuttons, ..

See: `extras/AllFields.jsx` for more information

## Radio buttons, comboboxes and other lists
Some components require a list of values, whenever it is static or dynamically computed. In this case, the list is passed through the options attribute. It can be a simple array of values (the value and the label are then identical), or it can be an array of objects with a value and a label.
Note that the combobox also features an `emptyOption` to display a label for an empty value.

### Static examples:
The options attribute is just the list. Note that it is better if the list is statically defined in the JS file, so it is *not* recreated every time the component is rendered:

    options={["M","F"]}
or

    options={[
      { value: "M", label: "Male"},
      { value: "F", label: "Female"}
    ]}

See: `extra/AllFieldsRadioButtons.jsx` or `extra/AllFieldsSelect.jsx`.

### Dynamic examples
In that case, the list is read from the database. Note that the list should be read just once, and asynchronously to provide the best user experience. The values could be stored in the main component state (the easiest) or in a Redux Store (requires more work, but can avoid a full page refresh when the values change).

The example bellow shows a list being read once when the component is created, and then another list reloaded when a value changes (using `calculateOnChange`)

See: `extra/DynamicSelect.jsx`.

## Dealing with multiple value fields
Multiple value fields in Darwino are stored as JavaScript arrays in the JSON document, but are represented in edit boxes as a simple list of values separated using separator character (a coma by default). Checkboxes also support multiple values.
An edit component is made multiple by adding the following attribute: `multiple={true}`

See: `extra/AllFieldsMultipleValues.jsx`.

