# Computed Fields

Computed fields are complex in ReactJS but Darwino makes them simple.

## Type of fields
Darwino maintains 2 set of fields: the stored fields from the JSON document, and the calculated ones, stored apart. The form base component provides the `getFieldValue(name,def)` function to access either set: it first looks for a value in the document field set. If it is not available, then it looks in the computed fields set. 

Note: only dovument field fields can be bound to an editable component. Computed fields must be displayed using the `ComputedField`.

See: `extra/AllFieldsComputed`.

## Calculating/initializing fields
The base `Form` class features a set of methods used to initialize default field values or calculate compute fields.

### Field initialization
- defaultValues(json)

  Called once when a new document is created. The json parameter contains the current fields for the document. The function can modify this object to initialize any field. Once processed, the document in the redux store will have these values

### Computed fields
Computed fields can be calculated once, whenever the document is loaded/created, or every time it is needed:
- calculateOnLoad(values)
This is called once when the document is loaded/created. The calculated values must be returned in the values parameter.
- calculateOnChange(values)
This is called every time there is a change in the document data (ex: a user typed a character in a field). This means that the execution of this function must be as fast as possible to not degrade the user experience.

### Computed fields & Subforms
Subforms can also contribute default values and computed fields, similarly to the forms. The same methods can be implemented.

See: `extra/CCAddress.jsx`

### Computed fields optimization
The core Darwino focuses on making the use of computed fields very easy, at the expense of doing the calculation on each change, and then re-rendering the whole when a calculated value changed. This should not be a problem for most applications, although different strategies can be used to optimize both the calculation and the rendering, typically acting at the redux store level.
This is beyond the scope of this library for now.

