# Editing the raw JSON content

In some rare cases, for example for some admin tasks, you'd lie the user to directly edit the JSON content in a text area instead of using a custom designed form.
See: `AllCompaniesAsJson.jsx` and `CompanyAsJson.jsx`.

The `redux-form` library does not make that task easy as you cannot easily deal with the whole JSON content. Moreover, converting the JSON content to text, back and forth, might lead to different JSON text content as the JSON property order is not predictable.

A quick solution is to not use `redux-form` for such a form, but instead use straight ReactJS capabilities. If this sounds good, it prevents from using the Darwino library components, as well as the pre-built document load/save capabilities.

## Using a text property
There is another easy to implement solution: after being loaded, the whole document content should be 'stringified' and temporary stored as a text property within the document. Once this is done,  it can be edited as a regular text based property Finally, before saving, the JSON text is converted back to a JSON object and assigned to the document. This is done by implementing the following two methods of the form component:

    // Convert the whole document content as a 'json' property into the document
    // This property must be the only one to be edited going forward
    prepareForDisplay(values) {
        const json = JSON.stringify(values,null," ");
        values.json = json;
    }

    // Read back the JSON property as text and set its content to the values parameters
    // 'values' is a temporary object that will be saved to the database
    prepareForSave(values) {
        const json = values.json ? JSON.parse(values.json) : {}
        for (var p in values) if (values.hasOwnProperty(p)) delete values[p];
        Object.assign(values,json)
    }


## JSON Validation
The user can enter some invalid JSON which should prevent the document from being saved, while an error message is rendered to the user.
Because the JSON text is a simple document property, it can be validated as any other property:

    validate(values) {
        const errors = {};
        const json = values.json;
        if(json) {
            try {
                JSON.parse(json);
            } catch (e) {
                errors.json = "Invalid JSON value"
            }
        }
        return errors;
    }
